ΝΟ. 60 (Ep. CCLXH)

after you had refused to consent to render him this
conj ugal benevolence he consented to the same bond
of continence and lived for a long time in the greatest
continence with you 3 and by consenting he absolved
you from your sin in denying him carnal benevolence.
So now in this problem of yours the question is not
involved whether you ought to return to intercourse
with your husband3 for what you both with one
consent vowed unto God, you both ought to have
persevered unto the end in paying 3 even if he has
fallen away from your resolution, do you at least
persevere in it with the utmost fidelity. I should not
be urging you to this course unless for the fact that
he gave you his consent to that plan, for if you had
never obtained his assent, no lapse of years would
excuse you, but had you consulted me, however long
afterwards, I should have made you no other answer
than the saying of the apostle. · “ The wife hath not
power of her own body but the husband.'' a By this
power of his he had aheady allow ed you to practise
continence and undertook to practise it 111111 you
himself.

But this is the point 11111611 Ι am giieved you did 4
not observe more carefully : you were bound to give
way to him in your private conduct with all the
greater humility and submission, since he had so
devotedly followed your example and conceded you
so much. For he had not ceased to be your husband
because you had both agreed to abstain from carnal
intercourse, instead of that, the tie that bound 1011
to each other as husband and wife remained all the
more holy because of the greater holiness of the
resolutioris you were with one accord carrying out.
You had no right, therefore, to do anything with

505

